# BIOMD0000000045: Goldbeter_Calcium_Oscillation_based_onCICR_AND_two_pool_model

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000045.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000045.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


Borghans1997 - Calcium Oscillation - Model 3

A theoretical expoloration of possible mechanisms of intracellular calcium
oscillations has been studied, considering three hypothesis. This model
corresponds to the third hypothesis.

This model is described in the article:

[Complex intracellular calcium oscillations. A theoretical exploration of
possible mechanisms.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/17029867)

Borghans JM, Dupont G, Goldbeter A.

Biophys. Chem. 1997 May; 66(1): 25-41

Abstract:

Intracellular Ca(2+) oscillations are commonly observed in a large number of
cell types in response to stimulation by an extracellular agonist. In most
cell types the mechanism of regular spiking is well understood and models
based on Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release (CICR) can account for many
experimental observations. However, cells do not always exhibit simple Ca(2+)
oscillations. In response to given agonists, some cells show more complex
behaviour in the form of bursting, i.e. trains of Ca(2+) spikes separated by
silent phases. Here we develop several theoretical models, based on
physiologically plausible assumptions, that could account for complex
intracellular Ca(2+) oscillations. The models are all based on one- or two-
pool models based on CICR. We extend these models by (i) considering the
inhibition of the Ca(2+)-release channel on a unique intracellular store at
high cytosolic Ca(2+) concentrations, (ii) taking into account the
Ca(2+)-activated degradation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP(3)), or (iii)
considering explicity the evolution of the Ca(2+) concentration in two
different pools, one sensitive and the other one insensitive to IP(3). Besides
simple periodic oscillations, these three models can all account for more
complex oscillatory behaviour in the form of bursting. Moreover, the model
that takes the kinetics of IP(3) into account shows chaotic behaviour.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[MODEL6623009547](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/MODEL6623009547) .

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024) .

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.


